# CS-3114-Project2

In project 1, I built a simple database system for storing, removing, and querying a collection of rectangles by name or by position. The data structure used to organize the collection of rectangles was a Skip List. The Skip List is efficient for finding rectangles by name. However, it is not so good for finding rectangles by location. This was salient when implementing the region search and intersections functionality. The problem is that there are two distinct keys by which we would like to search for rectangles (name or location). So we should expect that we will need two data structures, one to organize by each key. However, even if we added a second Skip List to the system, we would still have the problem that the Skip List simply is not a good data structure for the tasks of finding all rectangles that intersect a query rectangle, or finding all intersections from among a collection of rectangles. What we really need is another data structure that can perform these spatial tasks well.

My database will now be organized by two data structures. One will be the Skip List, which will organize the collection of objects by name (as in the earlier project). The second data structure will be a variant of the PR Quadtree, as described below. In order to simplify the mechanics of the insert and delete operations on the PR Quadtree, the data objects being stored will be points instead of rectangles. The PR Quadtree will organize the points by position, and will be used for spatial queries such as locating points within a query rectangle, and determining the duplicate points.

I used a variant of the PR Quadtree to support spatial queries. The PR Quadtree is a full tree such that every node is either a leaf node, or else it is an internal node with four children. As with the PR Quadtree described in OpenDSA, the four children split the parent’s corresponding square into four equal-sized quadrants. The internal nodes of the PR Quadtree do not store data. Pointers to the points themselves are stored only in the leaf nodes.
